---
layout: post
title: "Legacy"
description: "Thought dump"
category:
tags: [Life, Death]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Here's the music that triggered this dump: [The Song of the Sibyl](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5p40pPd-UPc)

Though I do not understand a word in the music, the emotions are clear, the music describes the biblical apocalype,
the end of the world and in a way, the individual.

The thought that existence as I understand it will end someday truly frightens me. It also brings
a sense of urgency that I must make the most of life before the clock has run down. From the perspective of
the individual there are experiences to be had, goals to be achieved and a life to be lived and almost on the
other side is what must be left behind in the world for when your time has passed. While these aspects needn't
be completely antithetical, with the limited resources at our disposal, sacrifices must be made on one for the other.

I do not think that accepting defeat in the face of the minuscule possibility that one's actions might have some
profound impact on the trajectory of the human race is an honorable strategy. I exist here and now, and I want
to ensure that I take actions that will leave the most impact in the future. Then the question becomes, what do
I want my legacy to be ? What do I do to make that happen ?

The following is not refined:

1. Money
I grew up in a situation where there was just enough to be comfortable, my parents made sure of that.
You couldn't want something you didn't know existed, and much of modern day luxuries were off the table.
There was a constant reminder that finances are tight, and the way out is education and success. Adversity
is a compelling reason to work hard. I believe that I'm no longer at risk of financial troubles, but I would
not take risks that involve compromising heavily on finances, such as going for a Ph.D.

To truly chase after dreams, financial stability is necessary, and building a foundation that grants
this to the next generation is in my opinion, a worthy goal. While this runs the risk of being coddled by
an inherited security, it is far better setting up a situation of continued 
