---
layout: post
title: "Change"
description: ""
category: "Life, recap"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

An exciting year has passed. Here's the gist of it.

I quit my job at HP. I worked remotely while I waited for my visa and figured out that working
remotely is not always a good idea. Flew out to Chicago, explored the city and met some fun people.
Argonne and UChicago turned out to be every bit as exciting as I imagined them to be. Surprisingly,
supercomputers turned out to be like airplanes, not as exciting the second time. I enjoy my job, it
is fun and challenging like I want it to be. So far, my only gripe with this place is the winter.

I spent months reading and digesting the content on LessWrong, especially the [sequences](http://wiki.lesswrong.com/wiki/Sequences).
These have had a profound impact on the way I think, and I believe the time spent was well worth it. I do not think I'm
nearly the Bayesian enlightened rationalist that I would like to be, and it continues to remain on my todo-list.

Then I got into Bitcoin, stocks and algorithmic trading. I went down the rabbit hole of backtesting and optimising.
Some of the code is on my repo [Number6](https://github.com/yadudoc/Number6), which I believe does a good job of
testing EMA cross strategies on MtGox's historical data. There's a lot more to learn here, and definitely ton more to profit from.

My younger brother got a job in the field he wants to be in, and I feel proud of that. I learnt the hard way
that staying away from friends and family is hard, and I'm not as tough and solitary as I thought myself to be.
Skype and chat only goes so far.

I look back at the year that has passed, and I feel that there is a lot more that could've been done,
but it was good one nevertheless.

There is a road ahead, a road of my choosing and I look forward to see where it leads.

