---
layout: post
title: "Rent"
description: "What we owe"
category: Life
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

There's no free lunch.

One of the least ambiguous facts about existence as a self-aware conscious living being is that you are pretty sure that you exist.
To continue existing as a living being with our organic bodies we have to feed and maintain ourselves. This is a rent that comes implicitly with an organic body.

The mind in all its complexity is no different. The mind craves human contact, and things to entertain itself with. The rent we pay is a lot more subtle here.

I wonder if the concept of having to pay for the things you consume is a idea that comes from living in an economic system that society has created, or if it is inherent to any system of consumers and limited consumables.

Do we owe anything to the world for our existence ? Say, a moral or ethical debt/rent that we owe for having provided us the means to exist and by extention the means to impact some change and experience various things. We certainly did not cause our own existence. Like many thoughts I put down here, these questions are very subjective, and rather than find an answer or the right answer the point is to have pondered over them.

Since one does not cause one's existence it is easy to argue that the responsibility and debt for the new being does not lie with the being but with the progenitors. In several cultures it is the norm to have children bear a sort of obligation to the parents for them being the sole reason for their existence. I think that is a cruel form of enslavement. I think that any expectation of a debt owed from creating a conscious being is ethically wrong. At the same time, the question of whether the new being should think of having owed anything is slightly more nuanced and is a matter of opinion.

Talking in terms of parents, children and human beings might invoke current sense of morals/ethics inherited from our present social structure, so let's thinkin terms of creating a new race of conscious machines (macs) . Like human beings, the macs come into existence with no preprogrammed purpose. The macs, need electricity and parts to survive and maintain themselves (food + medical care).
Ethically would the macs owe their creators anything ? We've sort of established that it would be unethical for the human creators to wish for this new race of beings to be their slaves.

